Convert "Get started with PWAs" from tutorial to sample article (#3476)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/index.md

Author: in topmost article of docset
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/develop-web-microsoft-edge#provide-feedback-or-report-issues-in-the-microsoft-edge-developer-documentation
add link or section at top or bottom: How to use Edge; End-user docs/support.

An SMC link is in hub page.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/#help-and-support - 
"Microsoft Edge help & learning - Support for end users about how to use Microsoft Edge features." https://support.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge

Author: ```
For end-user documentation about how to use Microsoft Edge, 
see [Microsoft Edge help & learning](https://support.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge).
```

The back-end code for a Progressive Web App (PWA) can use the server-side languages of your choice, such as:
* ASP.NET
* Java
* Node.js
* PHP

Server-side web service API endpoints might not be required, depending on the app your're building.

The remaining sections explain the files that make up the PWA sample.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## The app's initial webpage (`index.html`)

`index.html` defines the first page that users see when they access the Progressive Web App (PWA).

[index.html](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/blob/main/pwa-getting-started/index.html) defines the webpage layout of the Progressive Web App (PWA).  The HTML describes the content in the app, including the text, images, text fields, and buttons that appear in the user interface.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en-US" dir="ltr">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1" />

>     <link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="https://edgestatic.azureedge.net/welcome/static/favicon.png">

Author: bug in Demos repo /Demos/pwa-getting-started/
the temperature convertor sample code uses `/static/favicon.png` 
but should instead use `/pwa-getting-started/icon512.png`
@captainbrosset 

live pwa: 
https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwa-getting-started/

author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: pwa
ms.date: 10/09/2025
---
# Get started developing a PWA

A Progressive Web App (PWA) is an app that you build by using web technologies such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, and that can also be installed and run on various device operating systems, from a single codebase.

By using this article along with the Temperature converter sample, you'll be able to:

* Customize the Temperature converter PWA by making minor modifications of the sample's code.

* Create your own PWA by copying and pasting the entire sample directory and extensively modifying the code.

See also:
* [Temperature converter sample](../samples/temperature-converter.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## The architecture of a Progressive Web App
<!-- https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/#the-architecture-of-a-pwa -->

The following diagram shows the high-level architecture of a Progressive Web App (PWA):

![Architecture diagram of a PWA](./index-images/pwa-architecture.png)

On the left, the device has some files of a PWA.

> On the right, the web server has back-end files (or database content) of a PWA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the right, the web server runs the back-end code (or database content) of a PWA.
```

To update your Progressive Web App, you deploy the new version to your web server again.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Example web server hosts

When your Progressive Web App (PWA) goes live, you must publish it to an HTTPS URL.  Many hosts use HTTPS by default, but if your host doesn't offer HTTPS, [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) offers a free alternative for creating the necessary certificates.

For example, you can create an [Azure free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free).  If you host your website on the [Microsoft Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/web), it's served over HTTPS by default.

You can also host your website on GitHub Pages (`pages.github.com`), which supports HTTPS.  See [GitHub Pages documentation](https://docs.github.com/pages).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### About localhost (http) vs. production server (https)

When using localhost web server, the URL begins with `http`, not `https`.  Key parts of the Progressive Web Apps platform, such as service workers, require using HTTPS, not HTTP.

> For development and debugging purposes, Microsoft Edge (or a window hosting a PWA local app) permits a `localhost` web server to use the Progressive Web App (PWA) APIs without HTTPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For development and debugging purposes, Microsoft Edge (or a window hosting a PWA local app) permits the `localhost` address to run the Progressive Web App (PWA) APIs without HTTPS.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Front-end code files (UI code)

A Progressive Web App (PWA) has front-end code files that are sent by the web server to the browser on the local device.

Front-end code is the resources needed for the app to be installed on the user's device, such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code.

A Progressive Web App (PWA) typically includes the following front-end code files:

* An HTML file to describe the content in your app, such as the text, images, text fields, or buttons that appear in the user interface.

* A CSS file to organize the HTML content in a layout, and provide styles to elements.

* A JavaScript file to add user interactions to your user interface.

> * A JSON manifest file to describe your app to the host operating system.

Reviewer: We should also add the service worker here, even if it's described in another section below.

```suggestion
* A JSON manifest file to describe your app to the host operating system.

* A JavaScript service worker file to cache the app's front-end code files and run background tasks.
```

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: pwa
ms.date: 10/01/2025
---

> # Get started with PWAs

Author: ```suggestion
# Get started developing a PWA
```
* Singular is clearer than plural in Dev docs.
* A task is almost always singular.  Task-oriented docs titles should be singular.
* Get started using PWAs, or developing PWAs?  Clarify.

## Front-end code files (UI code)

A Progressive Web App (PWA) has front-end code files that are sent by the web server to the browser on the local device.

Front-end code is the resources needed for the app to be installed on the user's device, such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code.

A Progressive Web App (PWA) includes the following front-end code files:

* An HTML file to describe the content in your app, such as the text, images, text fields, or buttons that appear in the user interface.

* A CSS file to organize the HTML content in a layout, and provide styles to elements.

* A JavaScript file to add user interactions to your user interface.

* A JSON manifest file to describe your app to the host operating system.

The front-end code for a Progressive Web App (PWA) runs by using the device's web browser.  The browser's own UI is not visible when the app is run in a standalone window, which is a streamlined browser window with minimal browser UI controls.

The sample Progressive Web App (PWA) consists of the following files, in the `/Demos/pwa-getting-started/` source code directory:

| File | Description | Section below |
|---|---|---|

> | `converter.css` | The Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) file defines styling for the webpage of the app; the layout styling of each UI control in the main page of the app. | [The JavaScript app logic file (`converter.js`)](#the-css-style-sheet-file-convertercss) |

Author: sort rows same as h2 order (not directory alpha order w/ Readme first like at GH)
